Youtube: Neso Academy
Video 26:
Example filling

Video 27: Finite Automata with output.

Mealy Machine. 6 tuples: 
Q - Finite set of states
Î” - Set of output Alphabets
Î£ - Finite set of non empty set of Input Alphabets
qâ‚€ - Initial/Start state
Î» - Output function : Î£ x Q -> Î”
ð³ - Transition function : Q x Î£ -> Q

** SUPER IMPORTANT CONCEPT **
So when we have 1/a on the number, it states that A on getting input 1, goes to A itself, AND PRODUCES OUTPUT b!!!

Now we have outputs defined along with inputs and current state/transition! Output is defined by current input in the current state.

Moore Machine:
Q - Finite set of states
Î” - Set of output Alphabets
Î£ - Finite set of non empty set of Input Alphabets
qâ‚€ - Initial/Start state
Î» - Output function : Q -> Î”
ð³ - Transition function : Q x Î£ -> Q

Here, only Î» (lambda) changes now instead of being mapped to input. Its just mapped to the state itself. 
This means that when the transition reaches a specific state, it produces an output from that state itself!!
Here also, the start state, BEFORE ANY INPUT, gives an output to start us off. Then we check the inputs. 

Mealy machine, on input of length 4, gives output of length 4. IE -> n length input = n length output
Moore machine on the other hand means, n length input -> n+1 length output due to START state.

Video 28: Construction of Mealy machine
Example 1: 1's complement.
Simple machine -> A start state, on input 1 gives output 0 and on input 0, gives output 1.
One state is enough for the answer.

Example 2: Print's "a" when sequence "01" is encountered in the input binary string.
First construct the DFA that accepts 01 ending string.
Then print the target state with output a, and then every other output can simply print b.

Video 29:
In Example 3 we can denote acceptance of a string by printing 1 at the end when we get the desired input, otherwise printing 0 when the alphabets range between a and b 
and we need to get aa, bb to print a 1.

Video 30:
2's complement Mealy machine. Neglect last carry bit. The pattern arises that after you see the first 1, every bit after that is complemented for the final answer.

MSB            LSB 
 1  0  0  0  1  0

Read from Least Significant Bit to Most SB
2's complement of above number = 011110

We need 2 states, and send after 1 to a different state that complements stuff.

Video 31: Construct Moore machine
Only here, the output is associated with the states.
Ex: Prints 'a' when we get sequence 01.
Three states, A - B and C. A goes to B on getting 0 and B to C on getting 1. 
A and B remain in other inputs, and for C, 0 goes to B, and for 1, goes to A. 
And when we reach C, that's when we get 01, thus we output a on state C.
Other two states will have a b state.

Video 32: Moore machine that counts 'abb' in any input over {a, b}
First construct DFA that accepts abb. And output the end of the DFA to be 1. At the end, we can count the number of 1's to count abb.
Every other state gives output 0 so that we can use 1 to count.

Video 33: Table to solve Moore machine.
Rememeber properties, start state and the property that your output starts BEFORE EVEN THE INPUT.

Video 34: Conversion of Moore to Mealy machine
