Fundamentals are very important! Bigger picture focus.
Hype-Cycle for emerging tech usually starts from R&D till Mass media picks it up and hypes it at max.
Then the expectations fall, we get consolidation and failures till less than 5% of the audience fully adopt and we
    reach a neutral plateau.

First electronic programmable computers => World War 2, 1943 UK and 1945 US
US: Turing complete: General purpose machine. Ex - ENIAC Computer
UK: Turing Incomplete: Machine can only do one task. Ex - Colossus computer = Only break code.

ENIAC (Electronic Numerical Integrator and Calculator)
- 20, 10 digit registers (2 feet long each)
- Funded by US millitary, publicly disclosed in 1946 at University of Pennsylvania
- 18k vaccum tube 

The first transistor: 1947
First Integrated Circuit: 1958 with aim of integration of circuits
IC's were not flexible/programmable, thus we got ->
Microprocessor: 1971 where 3 projects gave 3 results
-> Intel -> Texas Instruments -> 
=> Performance improvement, feature size and clock speed with improvement in architecture to enable lightweight computers and 
    productivity based programming languages. RISC architecture's rose

RISC : Reduced Instruction Set Computer, CISC: Complex Instruction Set Computer
Numbers after the RISC are just different iterations.
Earlier, performance = Number of transistors, but now its Clock Speed.

Moores Law has 3 iterations:
Technologist (Spatial): Double transistors
Microarchitect (Temporal): Double Clock frequency per core
Multicore (Spatio-Temporal): Double cores per chip, Double parallelism per workload

It stopped now due to heat density : Amount of heat generated per unit area -> Led to Power War, Dennard's Scale
High heat density is due to transistor having so much current passed through it, it generates as much heat.
Characteristic Curve of the transistor: Slows down the switch of 1 to 0 or reverse in a transistor due to current.
Which consumes more and more power.
Solution was to have multicore chips (Parallelism)

Classes of computers
Personal Mobile Device (PMD) -> Smart Phone, Tablet computer
Desktop Computing -> Price-performance
Servers -> Availability, scalability, throughput
Clusters/Warehouse Scale Computers -> Used for SaaS, availability and price-performance.
    - Supercomputers (sub class), floating point performance
Embedded Computers: Components of system emphasis on price and real-time.
