AProfessor Fengjun (Intro to Computer Security):
Security is popular, with broader impacts and covers a broad spectrum of topics.
It's required and is the basics of information security.
- Syllabus

Why do we study security?
Computer key concepts:
    - Vulnerabilities, threats, attacks, attack surface.
Vulnerabilities and Risk Assessment
    - Hardware, Software and data vulnerabilities
The Adversaries
    - Attack model, insiders, MOM
The Controls: Security Design Principles
    - Strategies to design protection/mitigation etc.

Phreaking = Early hacking
Signalling: Out of band or in band signalling to pass signal command, ie a special frequency to carry the signal
    in command at 2600 Hz. Blue Box : Built by Steve Wozniak 
(Changing signal against telecommunication system to change input phone number and send bill elsewhere)

The Morris Worm: The first worm. Robert Morris's experiment in 1988 (measure the size of the Internet)
A stack buffer overflow attack -> Brought down ~6k computers
Why security:

Smart Cars: Do they need security
- False assumptions 
(Code is too complex for troublemakers : More complex code is harder to secure.)
(People don't wanna hack them : Disable alarms, unlock doors, tracking, because why not.) 
- In Car computer systems are vulnerable
(Tire Pressure Monitoring System TPMS signal sent wirelessly was easily eavesdropped, along with unique identifier)

Attacks become Easy:
1) Metasploit [Well known pentest tool]
2) Kali Linux
3) Hacking Scripts : "NSA" tools leaked by shadow brokers

Defense side:
Defensively, security is overlooked. Computer crime is underreported, not taken seriously and law is behind the times.
Few lawmakers understand the tech while the law enforcement cannot keep up.

Key concepts:
NIST Computer Security Handbook:
Computer securty is protection afforded to a . . . [Lecture slides]

CIA Notion: Security
- Confidentiality
- Integrity
- Availability

Other Objectives?
- Privacy (Confidentiality related to the identity)
- Authenticity (Confirmation of identity)
- Authorization (Control over the information)
- Non-repudiation (Accountability)

Confidentiality examples:
[Get all the examples from slides]