Data Growth, Data centers and cloud computing.
In the beginning, only mainframe and terminals; Connect to the main terminal.
Next came PC's where Individual work on their own desktops
Our development proceeded by connecting various PC's together.
Finally culminated into The Web by Tim Berners-Lee at CERN in 1989 and publicized in 1991
The Web Protocol was royalty free in 1993. Internet (development started in 1960)
Web grew in size, PC's had to live in expensive data centers (million-server data center)

Data centers:
1) Need electric power
2) Long build time
3) Inflexible investment of capital
4) Specialized skills, (security, failover, load balancing)
5) Time away from core competencies
6) Hard for all but the largest companies to own/run
Solution: Outsource data center - Economy of scale, Webdevs focus on their advantage
Low lead time and capital requirements, Computing becomes a commodity

Data center consume too much electricity (90 bil kW/hr)
Outsource to "clouds": Data center hardware and software to offer computing resources.

Cloud computing represents both cloud storage and provided services
"Cloud computing: Most tech diagrams depict IP using a cloud"
It is a compilation of tech with a new infrastructure paradigm offering better scalibility,
elasticity, business agility, faster startup tie, reduces costs and just-in-time availability of ress.
-> Web-based apps, Databases running elsewhere. Consumer/Enterprise service

On demand availability and delivery of computing services: Cloud computing
Servers, Storage, DB's, Networking, Analytics, Software
The cloud is a very large number of remote servers offered for rent.
Why is it a big deal?

- Cost : Avoid initial capital costs of hardware procurement.
- Startup Time: Don't wait for hardware to start working.
- Server choice: Change power of server as needed.
- Distributed development: Remote working to share work
- Security: Cloud providers security peope are "better", not too many vulnerabilities and equal to your security goals.
- Remote servers: Release server on demand, can be scalable, elastic and resilient.

Scalability: Cope with increasing number of users. Resilience: Software architecture to tolerate server failure.
Elasticity: Scale up or down.

Why not widespread: 
Blackbox: (nothing is visible to client), Losing control
Security: Cloud subject to traditional data/confidentiality issues.
Performance, Uptime: Impact the bottom line 

Basic terms/services: [Software as a Service / Platform as a Service / Infrastructure as a Service]
1) On-Demand Self service
2) Resource Pooling
3) Broad Network Access
4) Rapid Elasticity
5) Measured services

IaaS: Consumer is system admin. Capability provided to consumer is provision processing, storage, networking and
other fundalmental computing resources. Run and deploy arbitrary software.
PaaS: Consumer is dev/system admin. Consumer deploys applications onto the cloud infrastructure using programming 
languages.
SaaS: Consumer is end user, using applications running on cloud.

Service model analogy: Pizza eating

Data growth, data centers and cloud computing

Various things as a service:
Application; Data; Runtime; Middleware; Operating system; Virtualization; Networking; Storage; Servers
Statistical databases (only stats, no personal information) that business can use also go on the cloud.
Various things as a service: XaaS (Service model, X as a service)
Photo editing: SaaS (Logistics management)
Cloud management Monitoring: PaaS (Delivery of computing platform)
DBaaS : Database as a service (Statistical Databases) can be provided with the same reasoning
Another view (Infrastructure + OS in slides)
Ex. 
SaaS : GoogleDocs/Salesforce
PaaS: Google Engine
IaaS: AWS, Microsoft Azure

One of the imp tech's used -> Virtualization technology to share spaces and hardware for economy of scale.
Diagram - Hypervisor provides any Virtualization needed. (Picture in slides)
Physical level = hardware
Virtualization = Environment dependant on the needs/expectations of given client
DBaaS:
Grabbing some data from database, perhaps deployed on the cloud. Large organizations have 100's of DB's and models
Relational heirarchy etc. Hiring Database Administrators becomes less investive by going to the service provider.

DBaaS: A 3rd party hosts a relational DB as a service. Business and client doesn't need to worry about special
access/charges to databases during New Year/Christmas etc
The statistical database is to also create very large databases that need to be maintained by some database administrator.
But one huge can be shared and specific parts can be interacted with only certain companies, such as cols/rows.
Security though might compete with performance in this case as well.

Big data: Is characterized by three frequently used V's. Volume (Size), Velocity (frequency of creation of data) 
and Variety (pic, img, audio, structured/unstructured). (There can be upto 8 depending)
Database might not have a lot of images (SQL). Structure also makes access and retrieval easier.
Hower the variety no longer fits the structured parameter. (Facebook users and the variety of info they input)
Alternative approaches (Unstructured data/ Non-SQL models) to store data and not waste space.

Data sizes keep growing rapidly. 30 bil items stored on Facebook monthly. 
15 of the 17 sectors of US economy have more data than Library of Congress.
Stuff happens every minute too (300000 tweets, streaming 70000 hours, Apple download 30000 apps)

The V's of Big data: [Graph in slides]
Volume (size/amount of info): Zettabyte = 21 digits x_x
Velocity (frequency of data generation/modification and processing)
Variety (data type and source)
Veracity (accuracy and credibility of data)
Value (how much is it worth to an org) 

Disciplines related to big data
-Storage on various devices (Information theory)
-Signalling/Formatting
-Natural Language Processing
-Computer visualization (Human-Computer interaction)
-Data integration (Warehouses of data)
-Data Analysis (Machine L)
Almost all data goes through specific phases/stage
Data generation/Collection: Enrollment, etc
Data processing: Wrangling (cleaning/transforming), Compression (efficient for storage), Encryption (security) etc.
Storage: Tapes, Floppy, CD's, HardDrives etc.
Data management: Modeling, organizing and querying data. Providing keys for retrieval and other administrative functions.
Data analysis: Write algorithms to deduce useful information from raw data.
Data visualization: Creating graphical representation of data.
Data Interpretation: Making better sense of data via analysis.
It's a big deal because the amount of data generated and the scale of handling.

END of First Topic: Evolution of computing devices, Big Data, Data life cycle
