AProfessor Fengjun (Intro to Computer Security):
Security is popular, with broader impacts and covers a broad spectrum of topics.
It's required and is the basics of information security.
- Syllabus

Why do we study security?
Computer key concepts:
    - Vulnerabilities, threats, attacks, attack surface.
Vulnerabilities and Risk Assessment
    - Hardware, Software and data vulnerabilities
The Adversaries
    - Attack model, insiders, MOM
The Controls: Security Design Principles
    - Strategies to design protection/mitigation etc.

Phreaking = Early hacking
Signalling: Out of band or in band signalling to pass signal command, ie a special frequency to carry the signal
    in command at 2600 Hz. Blue Box : Built by Steve Wozniak 
(Changing signal against telecommunication system to change input phone number and send bill elsewhere)

The Morris Worm: The first worm. Robert Morris's experiment in 1988 (measure the size of the Internet)
A stack buffer overflow attack -> Brought down ~6k computers
Why security:

Smart Cars: Do they need security
- False assumptions 
(Code is too complex for troublemakers : More complex code is harder to secure.)
(People don't wanna hack them : Disable alarms, unlock doors, tracking, because why not.) 
- In Car computer systems are vulnerable
(Tire Pressure Monitoring System TPMS signal sent wirelessly was easily eavesdropped, along with unique identifier)

Attacks become Easy:
1) Metasploit [Well known pentest tool]
2) Kali Linux
3) Hacking Scripts : "NSA" tools leaked by shadow brokers

Defense side:
Defensively, security is overlooked. Computer crime is underreported, not taken seriously and law is behind the times.
Few lawmakers understand the tech while the law enforcement cannot keep up.

Key concepts:
NIST Computer Security Handbook:
Computer securty is protection afforded to a . . . [Lecture slides]

CIA Notion: Security
- Confidentiality: Only sender and intended receiver understand message content.
- Integrity: Receiver can ensure message is not altered (in transit or after).
- End point authentication: Sender and receiver can confirm the identity of each other.

Other Objectives?
- Privacy (Confidentiality related to the identity)
- Availability (Able to access your data.)
- Authorization (Control over the information)
- Non-repudiation (Accountability)

Confidentiality examples:
[Get all the examples from slides]

Cryptography:
Conceals data against unauthorized access. 
    Includes encipherment, digital signature and authentication exchange.
    Intruder may try to block, intercept, modify or fabricate the mesage.
Passive intruder: Eavesdrop.
Active intruder: Modify the message.

Plaintext = Original form of the message, Ciphertext = Encrpyted form of the message
Conversion involves encryption and decryption

Terminology: Crpytosystem
    Its a system for encryption and decryption
    Algorithm -> Plaintexts -> Ciphertexts -> Keys.
    Cryptographic algorithm (cipher) : Takes key to convert plaintext, to ciphertext and then back.

To understand Cryptography:
    1) Crpytographic algorithm (How plaintext transformed to ciphertext)
    2) Block ciphers and stream ciphers (How plaintext is processed)
    3) How key is generated and used (1 key, 2 key, or no key)

Ceaser cipher is a special case of shift cipher.

Classic ciphers:
    - One time pad (OTP)
    - Transition ciphers

Password cracker task   :   You are an attacker [Project activity in Canvas]
Brute force attack successful? - Probably yes
Why the Vigenere cipher can be broken: Use alphabets to hide frequency patterns but still a shift cipher
To use vigenere cipher, we need a (very) long key!
Ideally Long key : Random, continuous and non-repeated.
Generate a random bit of sequence and then convert it to ASCII and then bitstring to get key.

Vernam cipher : Plaintext and keystream are both letters (A = 0, B = 1)
Key is same length as plaintext
Ciphertext = Plaintext + key (mod 26)
Machine : Uses three tapes for plain, key and cipher text
Known as a One-Time Pad (OTP)

Practical way to do One-Time Pad:
    Each bit in keystream is used to encrypt plaintext in bitstream
    Do bit-level trick - XOR
    Provides uniform output, Randomly generated
    Bitwise-XOR is a mod 2 operation.

Feature: Same key is used for both encryption and decryption
Works: XOR on itself is 0 and on plaintext p double XOR gives p
Encryption : plaintext XOR keystream

Advantages of OTP:
    Fast/Quick and theoretically secure if the key is secure.
    Given ciphertext, then plaintext could be anything.

Perfect secrecy : OTP is impossible unless
    Key is truly random and as long as plaintext
    This means all plaintexts are equally likely
Problems:
    Key must be as long as the plaintext
    Insecure if the key is reused
    No guarantee of integrity

Cipher design technique:
    Substitution  : exchange bits for another set
    Transposition : Rearrange order of ciphertext

Transposition Cipher: Rearrange plaintext to get ciphertext
Most transposition use a fixed period d
<Example in slides/lecture>

Transposition can be cracked by frequency analysis of digramsn and trigrams (common letter pairs or triples).

>Substitution is for Confusion. 
Transposition is for Diffusion.

Confusion: Make the relationship between plain and cipher as complex as possible/ Unpredictibility
Change affects cipher unpredictibly

Diffusion: Dissipate the statistical structure of the plaintext in long rage statistics of cipher.
Change affects cipher in many different parts

Claude Shannon: "Father of information theory"
Cipher achieves perfect secrecy if and only if there are as many possible keys as possible plaintexts, and every key is 
equally likely.
Combination of Approaches is the strongest.

Cryptosystem should be infeasible to:
– enumerate all possible keys
– find the key from cipher and plaintext by enumerating possible keys 
– get plain from cipher without key
– distinguish cipher from true random values

